Hi, guys and welcome to this section on unit testing.
In this section, we're going to look
at what tests are, why you should do them
and also how you test with Python
using the built-in library called Unit Test.
Testing has two main purposes.
The first one is to describe
what your application does
and what your functions in your application do.
And the second one is to keep you right
as your application changes.
So, you can think of tests
as checks and there's a bit of a discussion
around the testing community with these names,
whether tests should be called checks or not.
A check is something that you run on your application code
and always checks the same thing,
for example, that a function gives you the right value
for certain inputs
whereas a test, some people like to say
is when you go and you manually try
to break your application,
you try to verify that's it's doing what it has to do,
you're trying to verify that it doesn't have any problems
that you haven't noticed before and so on.
After you test and you find any problems,
you then write checks for those
so that they don't happen again
when you change your code again.
Let me say at this point
that if your application is very small
and you don't think it's every going to grow,
for example, if you're making sample apps
for a portfolio or something like that,
they probably don't need tests
just because you're not gonna be changing the code
which means that there's nothing for you to check
as your code changes.
Once your application is working,
there's no need to check anything long term
because there's nothing that changes.
However, writing tests is a key software skill,
as usual when you're working on software projects,
the projects keep growing and growing constantly,
so having tests there is a good thing,
so maybe you do wanna write tests
for your portfolio apps anyway
just so your potential employers know that you can.
With that said, tests also have a final purpose
which is that if you can easily write tests
for your code, that means your code is easily testable
and usually almost always,
easily testable code has a high correlation
to good-quality code
just because if it's easy to test,
it means it's simple to think about
and to reason about
and that's why it's easy to test.
If writing tests is very difficult,
that means that probably your code is too complicated
or you don't fully understand it.
And that can be a sign that something's wrong with the code.
So, those three purposes
to describe what the code does,
to check long term as the code changes
and to help you write better code
are the main purpose of testing.
So, in this section, we're going to look
at how you do it, so join me in the next video,
I'll see you there.